README.md, before:

# 51Degrees ApacheBench Fork

![51Degrees](https://51degrees.com/DesktopModules/FiftyOne/Distributor/Logo.ashx?utm_source=github&utm_medium=repository&utm_content=home&utm_campaign=c-open-source "Data rewards the curious") **ApacheBench**


A version of the Apache Benchmarking tool modified to randomly generate User-Agent headers. For more information on the original project including building this version see the [Apache HTTP server benchmarking tool](http://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.2/programs/ab.html) documentation.

The tool is used to stress device detection solutions by providing unique unlikely User-Agents during benchmarking. The original implementation was poorly suited to device detection testing as it repeated a single set of HTTP headers for every test.

## Dependencies

The ab executable is dependent on the Apache Portable Runtime (APR).

### Linux

The simplest method to install APR on Ubuntu is by using the following command.

```
sudo apt-get install apache2-dev libapr1-dev libaprutil1-dev
```

For building the executable, CMake and a suitable C compiler are required. On Ubuntu, these can be installed by using the following command.

```
sudo apt-get install cmake gcc make
```

### Windows

For Windows, the appropriate libraries and sources are downloaded automatically at build time  from [ApacheLounge](https://www.apachelounge.com/download/).

## Installation

To install using CMake do:

```
mkdir build
cd build
cmake ..
cmake --build .
```

Installation has been tested on Ubuntu 20.04 using MakesFiles generated by CMake, and on Windows using VisualStudio 2019. Other generated builds may be supported, but have not been tested.

For a list of compilers supported by CMake, see [CMake Generators](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/manual/cmake-generators.7.html).

## New Argument

This version can be provided with a text file containing User-Agents where each User-Agent is a single line in the file. Each request will select a User-Agent at random and further modify up to 10 random characters.

Use the U argument to specify a source of User-Agents. The following example uses the 51Degrees User Agents CSV file which can be found [here](https://github.com/51degrees/device-detection-data).

```
./ab -c 10 -n 10000 -U "../data/20000 User Agents.csv" http://127.0.0.1:8081/
```

## Additional Performance Scripts

Scripts are provided for both Powershell and Bash as part of the build. These are designed to start a web service, run ApacheBench on a calibration endpoint, then a processing endpoint, close the service, then output the overhead for processing. An example of how these are used is:

### Bash

```
./bin/runPerf.sh -h http://127.0.0.1:3000 -n 2000 -s "php -S 127.0.0.1:3000 -t /var/www/performance-tests/" -c calibrate.php -p process.php
```

### Powershell

```
bin\runPerf.ps1 -h http://127.0.0.1:3000 -n 2000 -s "php -S 127.0.0.1:3000 -t C:\inetpub\wwwroot" -c calibrate.php -p process.php 
```

Commit message:

DOC: Add link to cmake for windows

README.md, after:

# 51Degrees ApacheBench Fork

![51Degrees](https://51degrees.com/DesktopModules/FiftyOne/Distributor/Logo.ashx?utm_source=github&utm_medium=repository&utm_content=home&utm_campaign=c-open-source "Data rewards the curious") **ApacheBench**


A version of the Apache Benchmarking tool modified to randomly generate User-Agent headers. For more information on the original project including building this version see the [Apache HTTP server benchmarking tool](http://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.2/programs/ab.html) documentation.

The tool is used to stress device detection solutions by providing unique unlikely User-Agents during benchmarking. The original implementation was poorly suited to device detection testing as it repeated a single set of HTTP headers for every test.

## Dependencies

The ab executable is dependent on the Apache Portable Runtime (APR).

### Linux

The simplest method to install APR on Ubuntu is by using the following command.

```
sudo apt-get install apache2-dev libapr1-dev libaprutil1-dev
```

For building the executable, CMake and a suitable C compiler are required. On Ubuntu, these can be installed by using the following command.

```
sudo apt-get install cmake gcc make
```

### Windows

For Windows, cmake can be obtained from: [CMake.org](https://cmake.org/download/). The appropriate libraries and sources are downloaded automatically at build time  from [ApacheLounge](https://www.apachelounge.com/download/).

## Installation

To install using CMake do:

```
mkdir build
cd build
cmake ..
cmake --build .
```

Installation has been tested on Ubuntu 20.04 using MakesFiles generated by CMake, and on Windows using VisualStudio 2019. Other generated builds may be supported, but have not been tested.

For a list of compilers supported by CMake, see [CMake Generators](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/manual/cmake-generators.7.html).

## New Argument

This version can be provided with a text file containing User-Agents where each User-Agent is a single line in the file. Each request will select a User-Agent at random and further modify up to 10 random characters.

Use the U argument to specify a source of User-Agents. The following example uses the 51Degrees User Agents CSV file which can be found [here](https://github.com/51degrees/device-detection-data).

```
./ab -c 10 -n 10000 -U "../data/20000 User Agents.csv" http://127.0.0.1:8081/
```

## Additional Performance Scripts

Scripts are provided for both Powershell and Bash as part of the build. These are designed to start a web service, run ApacheBench on a calibration endpoint, then a processing endpoint, close the service, then output the overhead for processing. An example of how these are used is:

### Bash

```
./bin/runPerf.sh -h http://127.0.0.1:3000 -n 2000 -s "php -S 127.0.0.1:3000 -t /var/www/performance-tests/" -c calibrate.php -p process.php
```

### Powershell

```
bin\runPerf.ps1 -h http://127.0.0.1:3000 -n 2000 -s "php -S 127.0.0.1:3000 -t C:\inetpub\wwwroot" -c calibrate.php -p process.php 
```
